[docs] Rework the pickers Getting Started page (#7140)
mui/mui-x: docs/data/date-pickers/introduction/introduction.md

---
product: date-pickers
title: Date and Time Picker - Introduction
packageName: '@mui/x-date-pickers'
githubLabel: 'component: pickers'
materialDesign: https://m2.material.io/components/date-pickers
waiAria: https://www.w3.org/WAI/ARIA/apg/example-index/dialog-modal/datepicker-dialog.html
---

# Date and Time Pickers - Introduction

<p class="description">The Date and Time pickers expose a lot of components to fit your every needs.</p>

{{"component": "modules/components/ComponentLinkHeader.js"}}

## Basic usage

> All the components can be uncontrolled or controlled by using the `value` / `onChange` props:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All the components have a `value` / `onChange` API to set and control the values:
```

{{"demo": "ControlledComponent.js"}}

## Imports

> All the components exported by `@mui/x-date-pickers` are also exported by `@mui/x-date-pickers-pro` but without the nested imports.

Reviewer: > but without the nested imports.

What's the reason for it? Does it impact tree shaking?

Author: The reason is to avoid creating dozens of folder in `@mui/x-date-pickers-pro` that just re-export their equivalent from `@mui/x-date-pickers`

The tree shaking works fine on root imports in the whole MUI ecosystem.
Nested imports are only usefull for dev treeshaking.

For example, to use the `DatePicker` component, the following three imports are valid:

```tsx
import { DatePicker } from '@mui/x-date-pickers/DatePicker';
import { DatePicker } from '@mui/x-date-pickers';
import { DatePicker } from '@mui/x-date-pickers-pro';
```

## Other components

### Choose interaction style

> The first thing you need to decide, is how the user should be able to select their value:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on your use case, different interaction styles are preferred.
```

> - For input editing with a popover, use the _Picker_ components:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For input editing with a popover for mouse interaction, use the _Picker_ components:
```

{{"demo": "BasicDatePicker.js", "hideToolbar": true, "bg": "inline"}}

- For input-only editing, use the _Field_ components:

{{"demo": "BasicDateField.js", "hideToolbar": true, "bg": "inline"}}

- For inline editing, use the _Calendar / Clock_ components:

{{"demo": "BasicDateCalendar.js", "hideToolbar": true, "bg": "inline"}}

:::info
Each _Picker_ is a combination of one _Field_ and one or several _Calendar / Clock_ components.
For example, the `DatePicker` is the combination of the `DateField` and the `DateCalendar`.

The _Calendar / Clock_ components are rendered inside a _Popover_ on desktop and inside a _Modal_ on mobile.
:::

### Date or time editing ?

The Date and Time Pickers are divided into six families of components.
The demo below shows each one of them using their field component:

> {{"demo": "ComponentFamilies.js"}}

Reviewer: Again for this demo I would have the `<span className="plan-pro"/>` before the name and with a tooltip.

```suggestion
{{"demo": "ComponentFamilies.js"}}
```

### Responsiveness

Each _Picker_ is available in a desktop, mobile and responsive variant:

- The desktop component (e.g. `DesktopNextDatePicker`) which works best for mouse devices and large screens.
  It renders the views inside a popover and allows editing values directly inside the field.

- The mobile component (e.g. `MobileNextDatePicker`) which works best for touch devices and small screens.
  It renders the view inside a modal and does not allow editing values directly inside the field.

> - The responsive component (e.g. `NextDatePicker`) which renders the desktop component or the mobile one depending on the device it runs on.

Reviewer: Maybe describe the responsive first?

{{"demo": "ResponsivePickers.js"}}

### Find your component

> Use the form below to find component you need:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are many options of components available, each fitting specific use cases. Use the form below to find the component you need:
```

### Find your component

> There are many options of components available, each fitting specific use cases. Use the form below to find the component you need:

Reviewer 2: When reading it I was wondering about which option are you talking about

```suggestion
There are many components available, each fitting specific use cases. Use the form below to find the component you need:
```
